do you know what this is no it's not
some sort of torture device or a
pocket-sized weapon it's actually a wine
opener and works a lot better than a
traditional corkscrew that you may be
familiar with because it removes
Stoppers without damaging them it's a
super specific single purpose device
that does its job extremely well and in
that regard it is exactly like Alfa
Romeos brand new 4c sports car
you can think of this two-seat coupe as
an Italian version of a Porsche Cayman
and it heralds the Alpha brand's return
to the United States after a 20-year
absence now the 4c is focused like few
other cars on the market offering
stunning exterior design razor-sharp
handling and precious little else this
is great news if you live on a twisty
mountain road frequently compete in
autocross events or spend your time at
open track days sadly though it also
means this is one very compromised
vehicle the 4c is extremely difficult to
get into and out of it sills are wider
than an outrigger canoe rearward
visibility is essentially non-existent
the Sun visors are unusable
there's no glovebox the trunk is tiny
it's deafeningly loud inside just about
any speed there are no armrests and it's
radio has the worst user interface I
have ever experienced that's a lot of
negativity in a few sentences but
fortunately many of those attributes
start to melt away when you drive the 4c
in anger the way it was intended to be
used appropriately this Alfa is
seriously quick with an estimated 0 to
60 time of four and a half seconds top
speed is 160 miles an hour now it
delivers that acceleration thanks to
solid engineering not overwhelming
amounts of power see it's built around a
carbon fiber monocoque structure with
various aluminium bits thrown in this
means it's incredibly rigid and quite
light measuring less than 2,500 pounds
in u.s. trim if mid-mounted 1.75 liter
turbo 4 delivers 237 horsepower with 258
pound-feet of twist torque is routed to
the rear wheels through a 6-speed dual
dry clutch automatic the only
transmission available
get this thing out on a backcountry Road
and it's horrendous blind spots noisy
cabin and lack of armrests become almost
irrelevant thanks to its fully
mechanical steering there's an unrivaled
connectedness in this car that I
absolutely love the four C's wheel is
beautifully weighted extremely
responsive and more accurate than a
scientific instrument body roll is
basically nil owing to carbon fiber the
structure is probably the most rigid of
any vehicle I've ever driven there is no
sense of flexibility there are no
shutters are creased it's so stiff it's
practically like piloting a brick of
depleted uranium not surprisingly the
four C's ride is firm though it's not
quite as vicious as you might expect and
you definitely feel bumps and ruts in
the road but it doesn't savage you
remember this car is extremely light and
its grip is absolutely tenacious it
should be beating you up over a tiny
pebble on the asphalt there are three
driving modes to choose from and you
switch between them with a toggle on the
center console in descending order of
aggressiveness there's dynamic natural
and all-weather the last one markedly
dulls the cars responses for slick
conditions in dynamic mode acceleration
in this car is certifiably fast and the
boisterous engine just howls right here
over your shoulder you can hear the
turbo whooshing almost like a leaky air
compressor hose and then there's the
exhaust which burbles and passes hard to
believe the 4c is street-legal it makes
so much noise but of course our car was
equipped with
so $500 racing's also that could explain
some of that extra noise as for this
cars dual clutch transmission I'm not
really a fan at certain situations that
can feel pretty crude there's a slipping
sensation at slow speeds and you can
also confuse it if you get on the
throttle sometimes really heavily and
then back out again it's not the
greatest performance of course when
you're really on it this car will bang
off ships extremely quickly but still
that's not enough to win me over
personally I would still much prefer a
proper manual gearbox as for consumption
the 4c should average 28 miles per
gallon which isn't too shabby given its
performance but don't expect to hit that
figure driving like this base price for
one of these limited production beauties
is around $55,000 though if you want to
spring for one of the 500 available
launch edition models plan on spending
about 70 big ones the Alfa Romeo 4c is
purposeful and about as raw as a bag of
chicken thighs it's an exceptional piece
of equipment for a dedicated test now
you probably wouldn't want to remove a
lash from your eye with one of these and
likewise you're not going to want to
commute to work every single day in a 4c
nor are you gonna want to take it on a
thousand mile long road trip it's just
not that suited to these tasks at first
its many faults really turned me off but
the more I drove this car the more I
came to like it it is an absolute blast
on a twisting road and people stare at
you like you're not wearing any pants
just look at this thing it's stunningly
beautiful now if you are a hardcore
enthusiast the Alfa 4c could be the
Porsche alternative you've been waiting
for
cook gravy you gotta cook the cracklings
tell they float you got it it's a secret
that's one of his 11 or 11 herbs and
spices was the cracklings nobody likes
to talk about directions